## Step 4: Cloud Deployment Plan

Deploying our Amazon Product Retrieval app on AWS would require: 

### Data Storage 

Raw data files: `Electronics.jsonl` and `meta_Electronics.jsonl` will be stored in an Amazon S3 Bucket called: `s3://amazon-retrieval-raw/`. AWS S2 is a good storage method in this case since the raw review file: ``Electronics.jsonl` has 18.3 million reviews and `meta_Electronics.jsonl` has 1.6 million products, which are a lot of GBs and would take up a lot of disk space if stored locally. Amazon S3 allows you to store a lot of GBs of data for very cheap prices in a secure, and scalable environment that is fault tolerant. This means that S3 is designed to prevent against any data loss, since it replicates your data across different data centers that are seperate from each other which makes sure that if one data center fails, the other zones continue to operate which keeps your data safe. 

After preprocessing and combining the data needed for retrieval such as the product metadata along with selected review information, we can store the processed folder: `data/processed/retrieval_corpus.parquet` in Amazon S3 in a seperate bucket. This bucket can have a different name/prefix to distinguish that it is processed data inttead of raw data such as: `s3://amazon-retrieval-processed/corpus/`. Our iniital data reading and proprocessing steps use Polars, which supports reading in parquet file formats and S3 bucket filepaths, which would allow us to read the processed data downstream directly from S3 using a line like: `pl.scan_parquet("s3://...")`. We can also add a timestamp postfix to the file: `retrieval_corpus.parquet` that is saved to S3 that allows us to have versioning and roll back to a previous version if a preprocessing step produces a bad corpus version we do not want. 

The FAISS vector index and the embedding chunk partitions: `embedding_chunks/*.npy` could be stored in Amazon S3 as an initial storage layer on the first run and to read from in a folder such as: `s3://amazon-retrieval-processed/faiss/`. At future app startups, the EC2 instance that we run the app on could download the existing FAISS vector index from `s3://amazon-retrieval-processed/faiss/` to its local volume so the existing index is stored inside the EC2 instances project directory's `processed/data` folder so it is automatically loaded on app startup for future runs. The BM25 index: `bm25_index.pkl` and the metadata row corpus: `metadata_rows.pkl` that BM25 searches for similarity in can be stored in S3 in a seperate subfolder such a `s3://amazon-retrieval-processed/bm25/`. Therefore, the BM25 index and metadata rows that it uses for similarity search can be pre-loaded into memory on the app startup from S3, so the BM25 index and metadata rows do not have to be built from scratch on app startup. 

### Compute 

Our app should be on an a seperate instance from our local machine, on an EC2 instance, which lets us hosy an application on a virtual server. Since our data preprocessing step and FAISS index/embedding creation take a long time locally, we could use a powerful instance with a lot of computing power and CPUs, such as a `m6i.2xlarge` which offers 8 CPU cores and 32GB of RAM, allowing us to have much faster processing speeds. We could also use a Docker image by packing our ennvironments and run commands into a Dockerfile. This would allow us to use an app such as AWS App Runner for deployment of our app, which has auto-scaling, so we can handle a lot of users as they cone in, without our app crashing or having slower performance and inference times. 

We can handle multiple users by implementing Auto Scaling in EC2. This auto scaling would handle concurrency and allow for horizontal scaling automatically depending on the number of user requests. This means that the EC2 instance would add or remove entire EC2 instances to match the volume of user requests that are coming in. Therefore, if there are lots of user requests coming in, auto scaliling will add entire new EC2 instances comoared to resizing existing EC2 instances. New instances come with a load balancer, and this load balancer distributes multiple incoming user requests to all avaiable instances. This allows our app to scale to many different users without forcing users to wait for a single instance to free up. 

We would handle LLM inference using a hosted model service such as AWS Bedrock instead of using a local model such as Phi-4 mini on Ollama. This is because Bedrock offers all major frontier LLM providers managed APIs to run, suchas Claude, LLama for example, so we do not have to download the model we want to run locally onto our own local disk. Using a hosted model on AWS Bedrock allows us to have a managed API where we can call major LLM APIs while not having to manage any local infastructure ourselves such as having our own powerful GPU. AWS Bedrock also offers auto scaling so that we can hamdle multiple users API calls easily, without having to wait on one single LLM API call to be returned before processing the next user request.

### Streaming Updates

We would incorporate new products into production by running a recurring daily batch job that takes new product metadata and that products review data as it came in and drops them into an S3 raw storage folder within `s3://amazon-retrieval-raw/`. We cold setup event notifications in S3 so that we are notified when new raw product metadata and review data is detected in `s3://amazon-retrieval-raw/products-to-add`. These event notifications that new products were added could trigger an AWS Lambda function or AWS Step functions for our multi-step case where the full pipeline is orchestrated again after concatenating the new product and review metdata to the raw `Electronics.jsonl` and `meta_Electronics.jsonl` files. These AWS Step functions could then take the new raw product and review metadata and orchestrate the pipeline steps to run Polars preprocessing again to clean the new product metdata, before creating a new BM25 index based on that data, and a new FAISS index & embeddings, before updating the updated metadata artifacts to S3 with a timestamp. 

Our pipeline would stay up to date by using a service such as AWS Eventbridge that could trigger the rebuilding of the pipeline depending on how often new data comes in. This service could dynamically swap variables when it runs this pipeline when rebuilding the indexes and embeddings so that the most updated data with the new products is used to generate embeddings and indices. We could also store health statistics such as the last successful run, and the corpus size, and also our user feedback metdata in a service such as DynamoDB. This would allow user feedback and health statistics of the app for monitoring to be stored in the same instance/place, regardless of what instance the user gets assigned to when using the app. This would allow user and health montitoring feedback to be stored in one unified place instead of being stuck in seperate EC2 instances local disks. 